# CS50 TRIVIA
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/grgSug349Xk>
#### Description:
For my final project, I created a trivia web application using Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jinja, and Flask. My project is inspired by the week 9 problem set, CS50 Finance. Similar to that pset, I required that users register in order to use my web application. The benefit of this is that I can keep track of their question history and compare the users in a leaderboard. I also added more advanced features than pset 9 because I allow users to change their passwords and delete their accounts by calling SQL commands.
Obviously, I was also inspired by the trivia lab we did in week 8. But there were major flaws with that design--every question and the respective answer choices had to be created by me. Additionally, because answer feedback was generated using JavaScript, users could inspect the page to get the correct answer. Conversely, in my final project, I utilize a free trivia API to generate questions and answer feedback is accomplished through the backend.
Therefore, the backbone of my web application is the ability to experiment with over 4000 questions, 24 categories, 3 difficulties, and 2 types. For example, a user can generate 5 easy true/false questions in the history category. I decided to make the amount of questions generated a constant because otherwise the complexity of program would go up, but that is something I am willing to explore in the future when my skills increase.
One of the things that I like about trivia is the ability to learn new things. That's why I implemented the history feature, allowing users to view all of the questions they have answered, their answer, and the correct answer. This feature allows the user to learn from their mistakes and also keep track of what they did know. Moreover, the leaderboard is, in my opinion, essential to any trivia application. When I have used trivia apps in the past, moving up the leaderboard has always motiviated me to continue playing.
One of the most frustrating aspects of completing this project was design of the aesthetics. I feel as though I did not know a lot about CSS and bootstrap before starting, but this project helped me learn a lot. Google has been my friend. A beneficial approach to this project was waiting to do most of the aesthetics at the end. I'm not sure if that is the norm, but it is an approach that worked for me.
Something else I worked on with this project was my style. I don't believe there is a style50 checker for this project, but I wanted to be sure that if someone else reads my code, they are able to easily understand what I did to accomplish what I wanted. For example, I tried to leave many comments and properly indent everything. In terms of design, I also tried to accomplish things without too much unnecessary code, something I will get better at over time. For example, one thing I noticed in quiz.html is that I had a button tag in both if conditions. Since that was the case, I moved the button outside the if conditions to reduce redundancy.
To conclude, this project was a great culmination of CS50. I am amazed how much I've learned. But more importantly, I loved the flexibility of this assignment compared to the others. I had the opportunity to design whatever I wanted, and I am proud of what I have come up with. This was CS50.